# Securing Accounts in AWS

- It is very important to secure each account in AWS yo prevent unwanted breach.

- For this, AWS IAM provides the following features:-
  
  - IAM Password Policy
  
  - Multi-Factor Authentication

## IAM Password Policy

- Password policy is used to define a blueprint for a strong password.

- Following options can be used in a password policy:-
  
  - Minimum password length
  
  - Require specific character (Uppercase, Lowercase, specials, etc.)
  
  - Require users to change password after same time.
  
  - Prevent password reuse.

## Multi-factor Authentication (MFA)

- MFA is a combination of a password that is known to the user and a device owned by the user.

- Using MFA, if the user's password in compromised, the account is still compromised as login won't be possible without the security device. 

- AWS offers 3 MFA options:-
  
  - Virtual MFA device:- Google Authenticator, Authy, etc.
  
  - Universal two factor (U2F):- A physical pen-drive like device used for authentication.
  
  - Hardware key-fob MFA device:- A physical device that generates token for authentication.
    
    - Hardware key-fob MFA device for AWS GovCloud:- Same thing but for GovCloud.

# Ways to access AWS

Aws can be accessed in 3 ways:-

- AWS Management Console:- It is the web-based UI to access AWS. It is protected with password and MFA.

- AWS Command Line Interface (CLI):- 
  
  - It is a cli based program, protected by access keys.
  
  - It can be used to access AWS services directly from the command line.
  
  - Using AWS CLI, users can develop script to manage resources.

- AWS Software Development Kit (SDK):- 
  
  - The SDK is used to to access AWS services from a software programatically. It is also secured by access keys.
  
  - They are language specific APIs.
  
  - It supports languages like:-
    
    - JS, Python, PHP, .net, Ruby, ect.
    
    - Mobile SDK like Android, iOS.
    
    - IoT devices like Arduino.

- Access keys are generated through AWS console and each user has their own access keys.


























