# AWS X-Ray

- AWS X-Ray is provides visual analysis of an application.

- Once a user sets up the X-Ray, they can get a visual representation of their entire architecture and see where the application may be failing.

- **Advantages**
  
  - Troubleshootig performance (bottlenecks)
  
  - Understand dependancies in a microservices architecture.
  
  - Pinpoint service issues.
  
  - Review request behaviour
  
  - Find errors and exception
  
  - Check if the services are meeting SLA
  
  - Identify the users that are impacted.

# Amazon CodeGuru

- CodeGuru is a ML powered service for automated code reviews and application performance recommendations.

- It provides two functionalities:-
  
  - CodeGuru Reviewer: Automate code reviews for static code analysis.
  
  - CodeGuru Profiler: provides recommendation about application performance in production i.e. in runtime.

- Reviewer:-
  
  - Indentifies critical issues, security vulnerabilities and hard to find bugs.
  
  - It uses ML and automated reasoning
  
  - It Supports Java and Python
  
  - It can be integrated with github, bitbucket and AWS CodeCommit.

- Profiler:-
  
  - Helps understand the runtime behaviour of your app, like identifying if the app is consuming excessive CPU for a function.
  
  - Features:-
    
    - Identify and remove code ineffeciencies.
    
    - Improve app performance
    
    - Decrease compute cost
    
    - Provides heap summary (identify object that are taking more space)
    
    - Anomaly detection
