# What is Serverless?

- Serverless is basically a paradigm where developers do not have to manage servers. They just deploy the code or functions.

- Serverless was pioneered by function as a service by AWS lambda, but now includes anything that's manages: databases, messaging, etc.

- Serverless does not mean there are no servers, it means that users do not manage, provision or see them.

- Some of the serverless services in AWS are - S3, DynamoDB, fargate and lambda.

# AWS Lambda

- AWS Lambda is a compute service where users can upload code and create a lambda function.

- AWS lambda service takes care of the provisioning and management of the servers used for running the code.

- Lambda is event driven, so the code runs in response to some event. Event could be changes to data in an S3 bucket, or DynamoDB.

## Benefits of Lambda

- Easy pricing:-
  
  - pay per request and compute time.
  
  - Free tier of 1, 000, 000 requests and 400,000 GBs of compute time.
  
  - It is integrated with the whole suite of services.
  
  - It is event driven, hence functions get invoked only when needed.
  
  - It is integrated with many programming languages.
  
  - Easy monitoring with cloudwatch.
  
  - Easy to get more moew resources per function.
  
  - Increasing RAM will also improve CPU and network.
  
  - Languages supported include - node.js, python, java, C#, go, Powershell, ruby and many more.

## Pricing in Lambda

- Pay per calls
  
  - 1st 1, 000, 000 requests are free per month.
  
  - $0.20 per million request thereafter.

- Pay per duration
  
  - 400,000 GB-seconds free per month.
  
  - After that, $1.00 for 600,000 GB-seconds.

# API Gateway

- AWS API gateway i sa fully managed service for creating, maintaining, monitoring and deploying secure API.

- It is serverless and fully scalablem and used for building REST APIs.
