# AWS Organizations

- AWS organizations is a global service that allows users to manage **Multiple AWS accounts**.

- The main account is called the master account and all the other accounts are called child accounts.

- It can provide a lot of cost benefits like:-
  
  - Consolidated Billing across all accounts
  
  - Pricing benefits from aggregate usage
  
  - Pooling of reserved EC2 instances for optimal savings
  
  - APIs available to automate account creations.

- Organizations can be used to restrict account privilges using service control policies.

## Multi Account Strategy

- Multi Account Strategy refers to strategies that can be employed to create multiple accounts in an organization.

- Users can create accounts based on:-
  
  - departments (Finance, Engineering, Admin) 
  
  - Cost Centers
  
  - Environments (dev/test/prod).
  
  - Regulatory restrictions (using SCP)
  
  - per VPC (for better resource isolation)
  
  - service limits per account
  
  - Isolated account for logging

- Tagging can be used for billing purposes

- CloudTrail and CloudEatch should be enabled on all accounts and all logs should be sent to S3 in a central logging account.

## Service Control Policies (SCP)

- SCPs can be used to whitelist or blacklist IAM actions.

- It is applies at OU (Organizational Unit) Level.

- Organizational units are a group of accounts that administer a single unit together.

- The SCPs are not applied on the master accounts.

- SCPs are applied to all the Users and Roles of the account, including root account.

- SCPs do not apply on service linked roles - roles that AWS services use to integrate with organizations.

- SCP must have explicit allow rules, by default, it does not allow anything.

- Use Cases:-
  
  - Restrict access to certain services.
  
  - Enforce PCI compliance by explicitly disabling services.

# AWS Control Tower

- AWS Control Tower is an easy way to set up  and govern a secure and compliant multi account AWS environment.

- It runs on top of AWS organisations, so it automatically sets up AWS organizations to organise accounts and implement SCP

- Benefits:-
  
  - Automate the setup of the organisation environment
  
  - Automate ongoing policy management using guardrails
  
  - Detect policy violations and remediate them
  
  - Monitor compliance through an interactive dashboard
