# Pricing Models of AWS

- AWS has 4 pricing models:-
  
  - **Pay as you go**:- Pay for what you use, meet scale demands
  
  - **Save when your reserve**:- Minimize risks, predictably manage budgets and comply with long term requirements. Reservations as available for EC2 Reserved instances, DynamoDb Reserved Capacity, ElastiCache Reserved Nodes, RDS Reserver Instance and Redshift reserved nodes.
  
  - Pay less by using more:- volume based discounts
  
  - Pay less as AWS grows

- On top of these, AWS has some free services as will:-
  
  - Free Services:- 
    
    - IAM
    
    - VPC
    
    - Consolidated Billing
    
    - Elastic Beanstalk
    
    - CloudFormation
    
    - Auto Scaling Groups
  
  - **Note**:- The last 3 of the above services are free but users have to pay for the underlying resources used by these services.
  
  - Free Tier:-
    
    - EC2 t2.mirco free for a year
    
    - S3. EBS, ELB, AWS data transfer free upto a certain limit

# Savings Plan

- Savings plan is another way to save money on AWS infrastructure.

- Users can commit a certain $ amount per hour for 1 or 3 years. It is the easiest way to set up long term commitments.

- There are 2 savings plan available:-
  
  - EC2 Savings Plan:-
    
    - It can give upto 72% discount compared to on-demand
    
    - It has option to commit usage of individual instance families regardless of AZ, size, Os or tendancy
    
    - Option to pay upfront, partial upfront and no upfront.
  
  - Compute Savings Plan:-
    
    - Upto 66% discount compared to on-demand regardless of family, region, size, OS, tendancy or compute options
    
    - Available for EC2, fargate or Lambda

# AWS Compute Optimizer

- AWS Compute Optimizer helps in reducing the  costs and improve performance by recommending optimal AWS resources for your workloads.

- It uses machine learning to analyze the resources' config and their utilization in cloudwatch metrics.

- Supported Resources:-
  
  - EC2
  
  - ASG
  
  - EBS
  
  - Lambda Functions

- It lowers cost by upto 25%

- The recommendations provided by AWS Compute Optimizer can be exported to S3.


