# Billing and Costing Tools

These tools can be divided into three categories:-

- Estimating costs in the cloud
  
  - TCO Calculator
  
  - Simple monthly calcuator/Pricing Calculator

- Tracking costs in the cloud
  
  - Billing Dashboard
  
  - Cost Allocation tags
  
  - Cost and usage reports
  
  - Cost explorer

- Monitoring costs in the cloud
  
  - Billing alarms
  
  - Budgets

# Estimating Costs in the Cloud

## Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) Calculator

- TCO calculator allows users to estimate the cost saving when using AWS and provide a detailed set of reports that can be used in executove presentation.

- You can compare cost of running apps in an on-premise server vs AWS.

- It compares costs based on server costs, storage costs, network costs and IT labor.

## AWS Pricing Calculator

- It was previously known as simple monthly calculator.

- It can calculate the cost for your architecture.

- You have to enter all the service that you use with all the config and it will estimate your yearly cost.

# Tracking Costs in the Cloud

## Billing Dashboard

- Billing dashboard provides a detailed overview of the services that you used in the current month.

- It also shows the usage of the free tier service.

## Cost Explorer

- Cost Explorer is used to visualize, understand and manage your AWS costs and manage usage over time.

- Users can create custom reports that analyze cost and usage data at a very high level across all accounts on monthly or hourly bases.

- It can forecast usage upto 12 months based on previous usage.

# Monitoring Costs in the Cloud

## Billing Alarms

- Billing data is a metric that can be stored in CloudWatch us-east-1. The billing data can be for worldwide AWS costs.

- Users can create a simple CloudWatch Alarm on this metric.

## AWS Budget

- AWS budget is used to create a budget and send alarm when something exceeds the budget.

- The budgets can be of two types - Cost, usage and reservations.

- For reserved instances, users can track utilization and it supports EC2, ElastiCache, RDS, Redshift.

- Users can send upto 5 SNS notification per budget.

- These budget can be filtered by service, linked account, tag, purchase option, instance type, region, AZs, API Operation, etc.

- First two budgets are free, then each budget will cost $0.02/day per budget.
