# AWS Trusted Advisor

- Trusted Advisor provides analysis of all accounts and provides recommendations for cost optimizationsm performance, security, fault tolerance and service limits.

- It has two tiers. The basic tier provides core checks and recommendations which is available to all customers.

- Users can enable weekly notifications for the same in the AWS console.

- The Full Trusted Advisor provides support plans. User can set CloudWatch alarma when reaching service limits, and can access trusted advisor programatically.

## Checks performed by Trusted Advisor

- **Cost Optimization**:
  
  -  It reports EC2 instances, EBS volumes that are under utilized and idle load balancers.

- Performance:
  
  - It reports High EC2 instance utilizations, CloudFront CDN optimizations.
  
  - EC2 to EBS throughput optimizations, Alias records recommendations.

- Security
  
  - MFA enabled on Root Account, IAM key rotation, exposed Access Keys/
  
  -  S3 buckets permissions for public access, security groups with unrestricted ports, etc.

- Fault Tolerance
  
  -  EBS snapshot age, AZ balance
  
  - Multi AZ configurations

- Service Limits
  
  - Users will get reports if the service is reaching its limits.

# AWS Support Plans Pricing

- AWS has four support plans:-
  
  - Basic
  
  - Developer
  
  - Business
  
  - Enterprise

## Basic Support Plan

- Basic support plan provides 24x7 access to customer service, documentation, whitepapers and support forums.

- It also gives trusted advisor with 7 core checks and guidance to provision resources while following best practicestp increase performance and improve security.

- Users also get access to the AWS personal health dashboard.

## Developer Support Plan

- With Developer Support Plan, users get all the benefits of the basic suppport plan.

- On top of that, users get business hours email access to Cloud Support Associates, unlimited cases / 1 primary contact.

- Based on the severity, AWS suppport team responds to the user issue within 12 to 24 hours.

## AWS Business Support Plan

- It is intended to be used if you have production workloads.

- In this plan, users get full trusted advisor with API access, 24x7 phone, email and chat access to cloud support engineers, unlimited cases and contacts and access to infrastructure event management for an additional fee.

- In this plan, the response time is even better:-
  
  - In case of production system impaired response time is less than 4 hours
  
  - In case of production system down, response time in less than 1 hour.

## AWS Enterprise Support Plan

- It is intended for critical workloads.

- In this plan, users get access to all the features from previous plan.

- Other than that, they get access to a technical account manager (TAM).

- Concierge Support Team (for billing and account best practices)

- Infrastructure Event Management, Well-Architected and Operations Review.

- In the plan, users also get a response time of less than  15 minutes in case of business critical system down.




