# S3 Websites

- S3 can be used to host static website and have them accessible on thw world wide web.

- The website hosted on s3 will have 2 URL:-
  
  - \<bucket-name\>.s3-website-\<aws-region\>.amazonaws.com
  
  - \<bucket-name\>.s3-website.\<aws-region>.amazonaws.com

- If bucket policy does not allow public read, then the website will get 403 error.

# S3 Versioning

- Files on S3 can be versioned by enabling versioning.

- Versioning is to be enabled at bucket level. Anytime the file is updated, the version number of that file is incremented.

- It is best practice to enable versioning as it can be helpful in preventing unintended deletes. Also, users can easily rollback to previous versions of that file.

- Any file that is not versioned will have a version null.

- If versioning is disabled at a later stage, the previous version will still remain the same.

# S3 Access Logs

- S3 Access log is a record od all the access that were made to a bucket, even when it was unauthorzized or denied.

- Any request made to S3, from any account will be logged into another S3 bucket.

- It is very helpful in RCA (Root Cause Analysis), audit usage or ifrntifying suspicious patterns.

# S3 Replication

- S3 allows replication of buckets and objects in same region or across different regions through S3 replication.

- For replication to work, versioninh must be enabled on both source and destination buckets.

- Replication can be done in two ways:-
  
  - Cross region replication (CRR)
  
  - Same region replication (SRR)

- Replication is done asynchronously and user must provide proper IAM permission to S3 for replication.

- User Cases:-
  
  - CRR - complicance, lower latency, access, replicatoin across accounts.
  
  - SRR - Log aggregation, live replication between production and test accounts.

# S3 Durability and Availability

- Durability means how often will a user lose a file stored in S3. AWS has a very high durability of 99.999999999% for all storage classes.

- Availability means how readily is a service available.

- The availability differs for different storage class. The standard in 99.99% availability.
