# AWS Snow Family

-  These are highly secure portable devices used for collecting and processing data at an edge (Edge Computing) and for migrating data out of AWS.

- Services for data migration include:- Snowcone, Snowball edge and Snowmobile.

- Services for Edge Computing include - Snowcone, Snowball Edge

- Data migration over network has many challenges, like:-
  
  - Limited connectivity
  
  - Limited bandwidth
  
  - Hugh network cost
  
  - Shared badwidth
  
  - Connection stability

- AWS snow family is used to overcome these challenges.

- Snow family are offline devices used for performing data migration.

- AWS sends an actual physical device that can be used to load all the data and send it back to AWS.

- Use AWS snowball devices if it takes more than a week to migrate over network.

## Snowball Edge

- It is a physical device used to move TBs or PBs of data in or out of AWS.

- It is an alternative to moving data over the network.

- Users have to pay for the data transfer job.

- It can provide block storage as well as S3 compatible storage.

- It comes in two flavours:-
  
  - Snowball Edge Storage Optimized
    
    - 80TB capacity
  
  - Snowball Edge Compute Optimized
    
    - 42 TB of HDD capacity

- Usecases:-
  
  - Large data cloud migrations, data centers decommissioning or disaster recovery.

## AWS Snowcone

- Snowcone is a small portable device that can withstand harsh environments.

- It is lightweight (4.5 pounds, 2.1 kg)

- It is used for edge computing, data storage and transfer.

- It has storage capacity of 8TB.

- Snowcone can be used wherever snowball does not fit (space-constrained environment)

- User must provide their own batteries / cables.

- It can be sent back to AWS offline, or connect it to internet and use AWS DataSync to send data.

## AWS Snowmobile

- AWS Snowmobile is a truck that is used for transfering data.

- It can be used to transfer exabytes of data.

- Each snowmobile has capacity of 100 PB (Order 10 snowmobile to transfer exabyte of data)

- It has high security, temperature controlled and GPS with 24/7 video surveillance.

- It is better than snowball if you need to transfer more than 10PB of data.

## Snow Family - Usage process

1. REquest a snowball device from  AWS consolle for delivery.

2. Install snowball client / AWS OpsHub on your servers

3. Connect the snowball to your servers and copy files using the client.

4. Ship back the data when done.

5. Data will be loaded onto S3 buckets.

6. Snowball is then completely wiped.

## Edge Computing

- An edge location is a location that does not have internet access or has limited internet access. Also, they have low compute power or no compute power.

- Processing data while it is being created on an edge location is called edge computing.

- For edge computing, we can use a snowball edge or snowcone device.

- Use cases include:-
  
  - Preprocess data
  
  - Machine learning at edge
  
  - Transcoding media streams

- Eventually, Data can be shipped back to AWS through snowball or snowcone.

- For edge computing, device specs are as follows:-
  
  - Snowcone
    
    - 2CPU, 4GB memory, wired or wireless
    
    - USBC power using cord or optional battery
  
  - Snowball Edge - Compute optimized
    
    - 52 vCPU, 20 GB of RAM
    
    - Optional GPU for video processing or ML
    
    - 42 TB storage
  
  - Snowball Edge - Storage oprimized 
    
    - Upto 40 vCPU, 80GB RAM
    
    - Object storage clustering available.

- All these edge computing devices cab run EC2 instances or AWS Lambda functions (using AWS IoT  greengrass)

- Users get a discount for long term deployment of 1 to 3 years.

## AWS OpsHub

- AWS OpsHub is a software that can be used to manage snow family devices.

- It is used for
  
  - unlocking and configuring single or clustering devices.
  
  - Transferring files
  
  - Launching and managing instances on snow family devices
  
  - Monitoring device metrics
  
  - Launch compatible AWS services on your device. (EC2, DataSync, etc.)














































