# VPC Endpoints

- In general, all the AWS service are accessed through the public network.

- VPC Endpoints allows users to connect AWS service using a private network instead of the public network.

- This gives users enhanced security and lower latency to access AWS services.

- We have two options for VPC Endpoints:
  
  - VPC Endpoint Gateway - for S3 and DynamoDB
  
  - VPC Endpoint Interface - for rest of the AWS services.

# Site to Site VPN and Direct Connect

If the user wants to connect an on-premise data center to a VPC, AWS has 2 offerings for this:-

## Site to Site VPN

- It can be used connect an on-premise VPN to AWS.

- The connection is automatically encrypted and it goes over the public internet

- To connect, the on-premise system must have a customer gateway and AWS must use virtual private gateway.

- Pros:-
  
  - Can be set up quickly within 5 minutes.

- Cons:-
  
  - Limited Bandwidth
  
  - Security concern due to public internet

## Direct Connect

- This service is used to establish physical connection betweenon-premise server and AWS.

- The connection is private secure and fast, and it goes over a private network.

- The setup can take up to one month.

# Transit Gateway

- Transit Gateway is used to provide transitive peering between thousands of VPC and on-premise servers.

- One single gateway is used to provide this function.

- It works with both direct connect and VPN connection.

- If you want to connect hundreds/thousands of VPCs together, use Transit Gateway.


