# Introduction

- Using the AWS global infrastructure, we can deploy applications to multiple geographies.

- It is very beneficial to disaster recovery as well as for improving the application latency.

- AWS has Regions, Availability Zones and Edge locations or Points of presence which can be used to improve the application's availability and Latency.

# Route 53

- Route 53 is a managed DNS.

- DNS is a collection of rules and records which helps clients understand how to reach a server through URLs.

- Some common records include 'A' records or 'AAAA' records, 'CNAME' or 'ALIAS'.

## How Route 53 works

- The browser makes a DNS request to the Route 53.

- Route 53 returns the IP address of the domain name sent by the browser.

- This IP address can be used by the browser to send requests to the server.

## Route 53 Routing Policy

### Simple Routing Policy

- The browser will send a URL to the route 53 and get IP address in return.

- No health check takes place.

### Weighted Routing Policy

- This policy allows to distribute the traffic to different EC2 servers.

- User has to assign weight to each EC2 server. The higher the weight, the more traffic will be sent to that server.

### Latency Routing Policy

- In this policy, Route 53 redirects the user to the server that is nearest to their location.

### Failover Routing Policy

- In this policy, we hava primary server and a failover server. If primary server fails, then route 53 sends the IP of the failover server that  is nearest to their location.

- It is great for disaster recovery.
