# AWS CloudFront

- CloudFront is a global CDN.

- It improves the read performance as the content is cached in the edge location, which in turn improves the user experience.

- AWS has 216 Edge Locations globally.

- CloudFront has DDoS protection, integration with AWS Shield and AWS Web Application Firewall.

- CloudFront can cache data from:-
  
  - S3 Buckets:-
    
    - For distributing files and caching them at the edge.
    
    - Enhanced Security with cloudfront origin access identity.
    
    - Cloudfront can be used to ingress
  
  - Custom Origin (HTTP)
    
    - Application Load Balancers
    
    - EC2 Servers
    
    - S3 website
    
    - Any HTTP backend user wants.

## CloudFront vs Cross Region Replication

- CloudFront:-
  
  - CloudFront uses the Global Edge Network.
  
  - Files are cached for a TTL.
  
  - It is Great for static content that must be available everywhere.

- S3 Cross Region Replication
  
  - It must be setup for each region you want replication to happen
  
  - Files are updated in near real time.
  
  - It is read only.
  
  - It is great for dynamic content that needs to be available at low latency in few regions.



## S3 Transfer Acceleration

- S3 Transfer Acceleration is a service used to speed up the file transfer process into the S3 bucket.

- S3 buckets are linked to a single region. If we want to transfer files from all around the world into that bucket, S3 transfer acceleration is very helpful in  that.

- S3 Transfer Acceleration uses edge location to increase the file transfer speed.

- The file to be transfered will be sent to the nearest edge location from the user, the it will be sent to the S3 bucket region through the edge locations.

- 

-  


