# AWS Global Accelerator

- It is used to improve the global application availability and performance using the AWS global network.

- It uses AWS internal network to optimize the route to user's application. (60% improvement)

- 2 Anycast IPs are created for your application and traffic is sent through the edge locations through AWS internal network.

## AWS Global Accelerator vs CloudFront

- They both use AWS global network and edge locations, and both services are integrated with AWS Shield for DDoS protection.

- CloudFront improves performance for your cacheable content (such as images or videos). The content is served at the edge.

- Global Accelerator does not use any caching. It send all packets from edge location to the server or application through the AWS internal network.

- It improves performance for a wide range of applications over TCP/UDP.

- It is good for HTTP use cases that require static IP addresses, and deterministic fast regional failovers.

# AWS Outpost

- AWS Outposts are server racks that offer the same AWS infrastructure, server and APIs to build your own application on-premise, just as you would do in cloud.

- AWS will manage and setup the outpost racks within your on-premise infrastructure.

- Users are responsible for the outpost rack's physical security.

- Benefits:-
  
  - Low latency access to on-premise systems
  
  - Local data processing
  
  - Data residency
  
  - Easy migration from on-premise to cloud
  
  - Fully managed service

# AWS Wavelength

- Wavelength zones are infrastructure deployments embeded within the telecom. provider's data centers at the edge of the 5G network.

- It brings AWS services within the edge of 5G networks. Services like EC2, EBS, VPC, etc.

- Traffic does not leave the service provider's network.

- Use cases - Smart cities, ML assisted diagnostics, connected vehicles, interactive live streaming, AR/VR, real time gaming.


