# AWS CloudFormation

- CLoudFormation is a declarative way of outlining your aws infrastructure, for any resources.

- With CloudFormation, you can basically say
  
  - I want a security group
  
  - I want 2 EC2 instances with this security group
  
  - I want a load balancer in front of these machines
  
  - I want an S3 bucket
  
  CloudFormation creates these resources for you in the right order, with the exact specified configuration.

- CloudFormation is to be used when you need infrastructure as a code and when you need to repeat architecture in different environment, different region or in different acccount.

## Benefits of CloudFormation

### Infrastructure as a code

- No resources created manually, they are created via the code user provides which is excellent for control.

- Changes to infrastructure are reviewed through code.

### Cost

- CloudFormation is a free service, but user has to pay for the provisioned infrastructure.

- Each resources with the stack is tagged with an identifier, so you can easily see how much a stack costs you.

- Users can estimate the cost of their resources using CloudFormation templates.

- Users can automate deletion and recreation of templates for more savings.

### Productivity

- Ability to create and destroy infrastructure on the fly.

- Automated diagrams for your template.

- Declarative programming - no need to figure out ordering and orchestrating.

### Don't reinvent the wheel

- Leverage existing templates on the web.

- Leverage the documentation.

### Supports almost all AWS resources

- Almost all AWS services are supported

- Users can use "Custom resources" for resources that are not supported.

# Cloud Development Kit (CDK)

- CDK allows users to define cloud infrastructure using a familiar language - Node.js, python, java, .net or typescript.

- The code written is compiled into a cloudformation template.

- Users can hence deploy application runtime code and infrastructure code together. It is great for Lambda functions, ECS/EKS.

# AWS Elastic Beanstalk

- Elastic beanstalk is a developer centric view of deploying an application on AWS.

- It uses EC2, ASG, ELB, RDS, etc. behind the scene. Developers can configure them but do not need to manage them.

- Beanstalk is a platform as a service (PaaS).

- Beanstalk is a managed service;-
  
  - Instance configuration / Os is handled by beanstalk.
  
  - Deployment strategy is configurable but performed by beanstalk.
  
  - Capacity provisioning, auto scaling and load balancing is managed.
  
  - Application health monitoring is available in beanstalk dashboard.

- The application code is the only thing developer will be responsible for.

- It comes iin three architecture models:-
  
  - Single instance deployment:- Good for dev environments
  
  - LB + ASG:- Good for prod or pre-prod
  
  - ASG:- good for non web apps in prod (Workers, etc.)

- Beanstalk supports many platforms and it also has full monitoring support within iteslf.

- The health agent pushes metrics to cloudwatch.
