# AWS RDS Overview

- RDS stands for relational databases.

- It is a managed DB service for DBs that use SQL as a query language.

- It allows you to create databases in the cloud that are managed by AWS:-
  
  - PostgreSQL
  
  - MySQL
  
  - MariaDB
  
  - Oracle
  
  - Microsoft SQL server
  
  - Aurora (AWS proprietary database)

### Advantage of using RDS vs deploying DB on EC2

- RDS is a managed service. AWS manages the following for you :-
  
  - Automated provisioning, OS patching
  
  - Continuous backups and restore to specific timestamp.
  
  - Monitoring dashboards
  
  - Read replicas for improved read performance.
  
  - Multi AZ setup for disaster recovery
  
  - Maintenance window for upgrades
  
  - Scaling capacity (Vertical and horizontal)
  
  - Storage backed by EBS

- But users can't ssh into the instance.

# AWS Aurora

- Aurora is a proprietary technology from AWS.

- PostgreSQL and MySQL are both supported as Aurora DB.

- Aurora is AWS cloud optimized and claims 5x performance improvement over MySQL on RDS, and 3x performance improvement over PostgreSQL on RDS.

- Aurora storage automatically grows in increments of 10 GB, upto 64 tb.

- Aurora costs more than RDS (20% more) - but is more efficient

- It is not part of the AWS free tier.

# RDS Deployment Strategies

## Read Replicas

- In this strategy, a replica of the database is created for read operations.

- Users can created upto 5 read replicas. The write operation is performed in the main DB. 

## Multi AZ

- In this strategy, a replica of the main db is created in different AZ.

- In case of failover, the replica is used in place of the main db for read and write operations.

- There can only be 1 other failover AZ in this option. 

## Multi Region

- In this strategy, the read replicas are created in different region.

- In case the main db fails, the app can use read replicas present in the other region.

- It is benificial for-
  
  - Disaster recovery in case of region issue
  
  - Better performance for reads

- This option will come with a replication cost.
