# Dynamo DB

- Dynamo DB is a fully managed, highly available, non-relational databsae with replication across 3 availability zones.

- It scales to massive overloads, and is a distributed serverless database.

- Dynamo DB can be scaled upto millions of requests per second, trillions of rows and 100TBs of storage.

- It has fast and consistent performance with single digit millisecond latency for retrievals.

- It is integrated with IAM for security, auth and administration.

- It has low cost and auto scaling capabiities

- The data stored in dynamo db is in the form of key value pairs.

## Dynamo DB Accelerator (DAX)

- DAX is a fully managed in memory cache for dynamo db.

- It can provide I/O exchange improvementin dynamo db performance - microsecond latency when accessing your dynamo db tables.

- DAX is highly secure, scalablel and available.

# Elasticache

- Elasticache provides users with managed in-memory databases like redis or memcached.

- Caches are in-memory databases with high performance and low latency.

- It helps reduce the load off databases for read intensive workloads.

- AWS takes care of OS maintenence/ patching, optimizationsm setupm configuration, monitoring, failure, recovery and backup.

- The main difference between elasticache and DAX is that DAX can only be used with dynamo db while elasticache can be used with other databases.

# Redshift

- Redshift is a postgres based online analytical processing (OLAP) database used for analytics and data warehousing.

- With redshift, data is loaded once every hour, not every second.

- Redshift is very good at analyzing data and making computations. It has 10x better performance than other data warehousing tools and can scale upto PB.

- It stores data in a column based way or **columnar ** manner.

- It has massive parallel query execution for fast computations.

- It works on a pay as you go model based on the instances provided.

- It has an SQL interface for performing queries.

- It can be integrated with BI tools such as AWS Quicksight or Tableu.

- 
