# DDoS Protection on AWS

- DDoS attack is when the attacker sends huge number of requests at our server and the application starts experiencing downtime.

- To prevent a DDoS attack, users can implement the following:-
  
  - AWS Shield Standard - protects against DDoS Attack for your website and applications for all customers at no additional costs.
  
  - AWS  Shield Advanced: 24/7 premium DDoS protection.
  
  - AWS Web Application Firewall (WAF): Filter specific request based on rules
  
  - CloudFront and Route 53:
    
    - Availability protection using global edge network
    
    - Combined with AWS Shield, provides attack migitaion at the edge
  
  - Use AWS Auto Scaling so that the application servers can handle more requests.

# AWS Shield

- AWS Shield is a service that provides DDoS Protection on AWS.

- It is made of two components:-
  
  - AWS Shield Standard:-
    
    - Free service that is activated for every AWS customer.
    
    - Provides protection from attacks such as SYN/UDP Floods, Reflection attacks and other layer 3/layer 4 attacks.
  
  - AWS Shield Advanced:
    
    - Optional DDoS migitation services, costs about $3000 per month per organization.
  
  - Provides protection against more sophisticated attacks on EC2, ELB, CloudFront, AWS Global Accelerator and Route 53.
  
  - Users get 24/7 access to AWS DDoS response team
  
  - It also protects against higher fees caused by usage spike during DDoS.

# AWS WAF - Web Application Firewall

- WAF protects web appliications from common web exploits that occur in layer 7.

- Layer 7 is HTTP layer, hence WAF can only be deployed on service that use HTTP.

- It can be deployed with - ALB, API Gateway, CloudFront, etc.

- Users can define Web ACL in WAF which can contain:
  
  - rules which include IP addresses, HTTP headers, HTTP body or URI strings.
  
  - Size Constraints or geo-match to block countries.
  
  - Rate based rules, to prevent 1 user from making more than 5 requests per second, effectively preventing DDoS.

- It can protect from common attacks like Cross Site Scripting (XSS) and SQL Injection.

# Penetration Testing on AWS Cloud

- Penetration testing is the process of attacking one's own infrastructure to test its security.

- AWS Customers can perform penetration testing on 8 services without prior approval:-
  
  - EC2, NAT Gateways, ELB
  
  - RDS
  
  - CloudFront
  
  - Aurora
  
  - API Gateways
  
  - Lambda and Lambda Edge Functions
  
  - Amazon Lightsail Resources
  
  - Elastic beanstalk

- Prohibited activities:-
  
  - DNS zone walking via amazon Route 53 hosted zones
  
  - DoS, DDoS, simulated DoS or DDoS
  
  - Port Flooding
  
  - Protocol Flooding
  
  - Request flooding

- For any other penetration testing, users need to contact AWS for permission.
