# Encryption in AWS

- In AWS, data is present in two states:--
  
  - At rest: when data is stored somewhere, like in S3, EFS or RDS.
  
  - In transit:- When data is moved/transferred from one location to another.

- Data is the most important for businesses today and hence, it must be protected in both states.

- So for encryption in AWS, users can use encryption keys.

# AWS KMS - Key Management Service

- AWS KMS manages encryption keys for the users - It is a managed service.

- It is the center of all encryption in AWS, anything related to encryption is most likely KMS.

- In AWS, encryption is already enabled for:-
  
  - CloudTrail Logs
  
  - S3 Glacier
  
  - Storage Gateway

- Also, users can optionally encrypt the following services:-
  
  - EBS volumes
  
  - S3 buckets
  
  - Redshift database
  
  - RDS  database
  
  - EFS drives

# CloudHSM

- CloudHSM is basically a service where AWS provides you with an encryption hardware to provision keys.

- The keys have to be managed by the users only.

- The device for key generation is known as Hardware Security Module (HSM). It is tamper resistant and supports FIPS 140-2 level 3 compliance.

# Types of Customer Managed Keys (CMK) in AWS

## Customer Managed CMK

- These are keys that users can create and manage for their use. They can enable or disable them.

- Users can create a rotation policy for these keys and can also create their own key.

## AWS managed CMK

- These are keys that are created, managed and used on by AWS on the customer's behalf.

- It is used by AWS services.

## AWS owned CMK

- These are collection of CMKs that an AWS service owns and manages to use in multiple accounts.

- AWS can use these keys to protect resources in user's account, but users can never view them.

## CloudHSM Keys (custom keystore)

- These are keys that are generated by CloudHSM hardware device.

- All the cryptograhic operations are performed within the CloudHSM cluster.

# AWS Certificate Manager (ACM)

- ACM allows users to easily provision, manage and deploy SSL/TLS certificates.

- These certificates are used to provide in-flight encryption for websites (HTTPS)

- It supports both public and private TLS certificates, and is free of charge for public TLS certificates.

- Automatic renewal of TLS certificates is also available in ACM.

- It can be integrated with:-
  
  - Elastic Load Balancer
  
  - CloudFront
  
  - APIs on API Gateway
