# AWS Secrets Manager

- It is a newer service, used for storing secrets.

- It has capability to force rotation of secrets every X days.

- Users can automate the degenation of secrets in rotation using Lambda.

- It has integrations with AWS RDS.

- The secrets can be encrypted using KMS.

- It is a paid service mostly meant for RDS integrations or for secrets to be managed for RDS.

# AWS Artifact

- AWS Artifact is not exactly a service, but is shown as a service in the AWS console.

- Artifact is a portal that provides customers with on-demand access to AWS compliance documents and AWS agreements.

- The Artifact Reports is a section in AWS Artifact which allows users to download AWS security and compliance documents from thrid party auditors.

- Artifact Agreement is another section that allows users to review, accept and track status of AWS agreements like HIPPA for individual accounts or for organisations.

- It can be used to support internal audit or compliance.

# AWS GuardDuty

- AWS GuardDuty is an intelligent threat discovery  service used for protecting AWS Account.

- It uses Machine Learning to detect anomalies.

- It can bes set up easily in one-click, has a 30 day trial and does not require any software installation.

- GuardDuty uses data from CloudTrail logs, VPC flow logs and DNS logs as input to learn about various threats and anomalies.

- Users can set up CloudWatch Event rules to notify in case of any findings using Lambda function or an SNS topic.

# Amazon Inspector

- Amazon Inspector is a service that runs automated security assessments for EC2 instances.

- It analyzes the running OS against known vulnerabilities and also against unintended network network accessibilities.

- The inspector agent must be installed on the OS in EC2.

- After the assessment, users will get a report with a list of vulnerabilities.




