# AWS Config

- AWS Config is a service that helps with auditing and recording compliances of your AWS resources.

- It helps in recording the config of all the services and changes they endured over time.

- Users can store the config data in S3 and later analyze it in athena.

- Users can also receive alerts for any changes using SNS notifications.

- Config is a per region service but can be aggregated across regions and accounts.

# Amazon Macie

- Macie is a fully managed data security and data privacy service.

- It's main USP is that it helps, identifies and alerts the users about sensitive data, such as personally identifiable information.

- Users can get notification be integrating cloudwatch events with Macie.

# AWS Security Hub

- AWS security hub is a certral security tool to manage security across several AWS accounts and automate security checks.

- It has an integrated dashboard that show current security and compliance status to quickly take actions.

- It automatically aggregates and alerts in predefined or personal findings format from various AWS services and AWS partner tools like:-
  
  - GuardDuty
  
  - Instector
  
  - Macie
  
  - IAM Access Analyzer
  
  - AWS Systems Manager
  
  - AWS Firewall Manager
  
  - AWS Partner Network Solutions

- This service requires AWS Config Service to be enabled.

- The aggregated findings appear on the Security Hub Dashboard, can be sent through an EventBridge and furthermore sent to Amazon Detective for root cause analysis investigation.

# Amazon Detective

- GuardDuty, Macie and Security Hib are used to identify potential security issues or findings.

- Sometimes security findings require deeper analysis to isolate the root cause and take action.

- Amazon detective analyzes, investigates and quickly identifies root cause of security issues or suspicious activities using machine learning and graphs.

- It automatically collects and processes events from VPC flow logs, CloudTrail, GuardDuty and create a unified view.

- Produces visualizations with details and context to get to the root cause.


