# 

# What is Cloud Computing?

- Cloud computing is the **on demand** delivery of resources such as compute power, database, storage, etc.

- On-demand means that you get what you wabt when you want.

- Through cloud service platforms, you can provision the exact right type and size of computing resources you need.

- You can get as many resources as you want instantly.

- You can also access, servers, storage, databases and other applications through an interface.

# Models of cloud

There are deployment models of cloud:-

1. Private Cloud

2. Public Cloud

3. Hybrid Cloud

## Private Cloud

- It is a model where cloud services are used by a single organization, but it is not exposed to public.

- The company using it has complete control over it.

- It is highly secure for sersitive applications.

- It is best for fulfilling specific business needs.

- Eg. - Rackspace

## Public Cloud

- In public cloud, the resources are owned and operated by thrid-party cloud service provider and exposed to the public over the internet.

- Eg. - AWS, GCP, Azure.

## Hybrid Cloud

- In this type of cloud deployment, users have combination of on premise servers and public cloud services/resources.

- The sensitive assets can be controlled over the private infrastructure while having the advantage of flexibility and cost effectiveness of public cloud.

# 5 Characteristics of Cloud Computing

- ###### On demand self service:-
  
  Users can provision resources and use them without human interaction from service providers.

- ###### Broad network access:-
  
  Resources are available over the network and can be accessed by diverse client platforms.

- ###### Multi-tenancy and resource pooling:-
  
  Users can share the same resources with security and privacy.

- ###### Rapid elasticity and scalability:-
  
  - Automatically and quickly acquire or dispose resources
  
  - Quickly and easily scale based on demand

- ###### Measured Service:-
  
  - Usage is measures.
  
  - You pay only for what you use.

# Six advantages of Cloud Computing

- ###### CAPEX (Trade Capital Expense) for OPEX (Operational Expense):-
  
  - You don't own any hardware.
  
  - Due to this, total cost of ownership and operation cost reduces drastically.

- ###### Benefit from massive economies of scale:-
  
  - Prices are reduced as AWS is more efficient due to large scale.

- ###### Stop guessing capacity:-
  
  - Scale based on actual measured usage.

- ###### Increased speed and Agility:-
  
  - Because resources can be used on-demandusers can create, operate and do stuff right away

- ###### Stop spending money on running and maintenening data centers.

- ###### Go global within minutes.

# Problem solved by the cloud

- **Flexibility:-** Change resource type when needed.

- **Cost effectiveness:-** Pay-as-you-go, for what you use.

- **Scalability:-** Scale easily by adding more nodes instantly.

- **Elasticity:-** Ability to scale out and scale in when needed.

- **High Availability and Fault Tolerance:-** Build across data centers worldwide.

- **Agility:-** Rapidly develop, test and launch software applications.

# Types of Cloud Computing

There are three typed of Cloud Computing:-

## Infrastructureas as a Service (IaaS)

- It provides the building blocks for the cloud IT.

- Includes resources like networking, servers and storage.

- It has the highest level of flexibility.

- Easy parallel with traditional on premise IT.

## Platform as a Service (PaaS)

- These are basically the services where the underlying infrastructure is managed by service providers.

- Using these, one can focus on deployement and management of the apps.

- Eg. - Elastic Beanstalk

## Software as as Service (SaaS)

- Complete product that is run and managed by the service providers.

- Eg. - AWS Rekognition

# Pricing of the cloud

AWS has 3 pricing fundamentals:-

- For compute, users pay for compute time.

- For storage, users pay for the exact amount of datat stored in the cloud.

- For networking, user pay for the data transfered out of the cloud.

# AWS Global Infrastructure

- AWS is a global service. The components that make it global are:-
  
  - AWS Regions
  
  - AWS Avaliability Zones
  
  - AWS Data Centers
  
  - AWS Edge Locations / Points of Presence

## AWS Regions

- A region is a cluster of data centers.

- AWS has regions all around the world.

- They are named as *us-east-1*  or *eu-west-2*.

- Most services in AWS are region scoped, which means that service used in 1 region is independent of the service used in the other region.

### How to choose AWS region

In general, it depends from application to application, but the factors to be considered are:-

- **Compliance**:- Some governments require data to stay in that region without explicit permissions.

- **Proximity**:- If the region is close to the users using that application, then it will result in reduced latency.

- **Available Services**:- Some services are not avaliable in all regions. So it is important to select a region that supports the service you want.

- **Pricing**:- Pricing varies from region to region.

## AWS Availability Zones

- An availbility zone is one or more discrete data center with redundant power, networking and connectivity.

- Each region has many avaliability zones (AZs) (usually 3, min 2, max 6) and are named as - ap-southwest-2a, ap-southwest-2b, ap-southwest-2c, etc,

- Each AZs are separate from each other, so they are isolated from disasters.

- They are connect to each other with high bandwidth and ultra low latency networking, and the AZs connected together will form a region.

## AWS Edge Locations / Points of Presence

- AWS has 216 points of presence in 84 cities and 42 countries.

- Content is delivered to the end user with lower latency with the help of edge locations.
