# EC2 Instance Types

- AWS provides different types of instances that are optimised for different use cases.

- The naming convention for each instance is as follows:-

                                    m5.2xlarge

- Here:-
  
  - m represents instance class. Instance class defines the use cases for a particular instance.
  
  - '5' represents the generation of that instance
  
  - '2xlarge' represents the size within the instance class.

### Instance Classes

The different instance classes available in AWS EC2 are:-

- General Purpose:- 
  
  - They are great for variety of workload such as web servers or code repos.
  
  - They have good balance of compute, networking and memory.

- Compute Optimized:-
  
  - They are great for compute intensive task that requires high performance processors.
  
  - For example:-
    
    - Batch processing workloads
    
    - Media transcoding
    
    - High performance web servers
    
    - High performance computing
    
    - Machine learning
    
    - Dedicated gaming servers
  
  - This instance class is represented by 'c'.

- Memory Optimized:-
  
  - They are meant for workloads that process large datasets in memory with fast performance.
  
  - Use Cases:-
    
    - High performance databases
    
    - Distributed web-scale cache stores
    
    - In memory database optimized for BI.
    
    - Real time processing of big unstructured data.

- Storage Optimized:-
  
  - These are great for storage intensive tasks. Tasks that require sequential read/write access to large datasets on local storage.
  
  - Use Cases:-
    
    - High frequency Online Transactioin Processing (OLTP).
    
    - Relation and NoSQL databases
    
    - Data Warehousing apps
    
    - Distributed Systems

# Security Groups

- Security groups are the fundamental blocks of network security om AWS.

- It is a group that contains rules  used to control how traffic is allowed into or out of the EC2 instance. They only contain allow rules. Anything that is not allowed is blocked by default.

- Security Groups can be referenced by IP addresses or by other security groups. This means that a security group A will allow traffic from other EC2 instances if the security group attached to it is allowed in security group A.

- Security groups regulate:-
  
  - Access to ports
  
  - Authorise IP ranges - IPv4 and IPv6
  
  - Control of inbound network (from outside to the instance)
  
  - Control of outbound network (from instance to outside) 

- The same security group can be attached to multiple instances.

- Security groups are locked down to region /  VPC, i.e. if we change the region or VPC, we will have to create new security groups.

- Security groups live outside the EC2 instances. So if any traffic is blocked, EC2 won't see it.

- If application is not accessible, then it is a security group issue, but if the application gives a connection error, it is an application issue.

- By default, all inbound and outbound traffic is blocked.

### Classic Ports to know

- 22 - SSH - For logging into the instance

- 21 - FTP - For uploading file

- 22 - SFTP - Securely uploading file with SFTP

- 80 - HTTP - Access unsecured websites

- 443 - HTTPS - Access secured websites

- 3389 - RDP - Remote Desktop Protocol, used for logging into a windows instance.

- 


