# EC2 Instance purchasing options

AWS provides its users multiple purchasing options for EC2:-

### On Demand Instances

- This option works on pay as you go model.

- For linux, the instances are billed per second after the first minute.

- Other OS are billed per hour.

- It has high cost but does not require upfront payment. Also, it does not require any long term commitment, i.e. you can stop the instance anytime.

- It is recommended for short term and uninterrupted workloads, where you can't predict application's behaviour.

### Reserved Instances

- These instances provide upto 75% discount compared to on demand instances, but they are required to be reserved for atleast 1 year.

- The longer you reserve these instances, the bigger discount you get.

- These instances also provide extra discount on different purchasing options:-
  
  - No upfront payment - no extra discocunt.
  
  - Partial upfront payment - some discount
  
  - Full upfront payment - Even bigger discount

- Reserved instances are further divided into 2 types:-
  
  - **Convertible reserved instances** - The reserved instance type can be changed in this type. But gives less discount.
  
  - **Scheduled reserved Instances** - They launch within the time window users specify. These are ideal when you require compute power for a fraction of a day/week/month for computing.

- They are ideal for steady state usage application (like databases).

### Spot Instances

- These are very cost efficient instances,  they give upto 90% discount compared to on demand instances.

- These instances can be lost if the max price you are willing to pay is less than current price of the spot instance.

- These instances are useful for workload that are resilient to failure, like:-
  
  - Batch jobs
  
  - Data Analysis
  
  - Image Processing
  
  - Any distributed workload
  
  - Workloads with flexible start and end time.

- They are not suitable for databases.

### Dedicated Hosts

- It is an entire physical server with EC2 instance capacity fully dedicated to your use.

- They can help you with addressing compliance requirements and reduce costs by allowing you to use your own existing  server bound software licenses.

- They are allocated for a 3 year reservation period.

- They are useful softwares that have complex licensing models, like BYOL model.

- They are also useful for companies that have strong regulatory or compliance needs.

### Dedicated Instance

- They are instances that tun on hardware reserved for your account.

- They are billed per instance and you can run multiple instances on the same account.

- They differ from dedicated host as in these instances, you do not have control of the underlying hardware.

# Shared Responsibility Model

For EC2 instances:-

AWS is responsible for:-

- EC2 Infrastructure

- providing isolation on physical hosts.

- replacing faulty hardware

- compliance validation

User are responsible for:-

- Configuring security groups.

- Patching and updating OS, softwares and utilities on the instances.

- Assigning and managing proper IAM roles and user access.

- Data security of the instance. 
