# Amazon EBS Volumes

- EBS is acronym for Elastic block store.

- They are network drives that  can be attached to EC2 instances while they are running.

- It allows instance to persist data even after they are terminated.

- They can be mounted to only one instance at a time and are bound to a specific availability zone. Users can use EBS snapshot to move data from on AZ to another.

- Since they are network drives, they use network to communicate with instances and hence, have some latency.

- It can be detached from one instance and attached to another quickly.

- Users have  to pay from the capacity they provision. Users can also increase the capacity anytime.

- One EBS volume can only be attached to one instance at a time. But one instance can have multiple EBS volumes attached to it.

### Delete on Termination Option

When creating an EBS volume in EC2 instance creation step, there is an option to delete the EBS volume when EC2 instance is terminated. This setting is turned on by default for the root EBS volume and turned off for all teh other volumes attached on the instance.

**Use Case**:- Preserve data even after the instance is terminated.

### EBS Snapshot

- A snapshot is a backup of the EBS volume at a point in time.

- Snapshots can be created even without detaching the volume from the instance, but it is recommended.

- Snapshots are not only useful for backup, they are also used for moving a volume from one AZ to another.

# EC2 Instance Store

- EC2 instance store is a physical device which is connected directly to the EC2 instance.

- It provides better I/O performance as unlike EBS volumes, they are connected directly to the instance and do not require network for communication.

- If the instance is stopped or terminated, the data in instance store will be deleted.

- It is good for use cases like, buffer / cache / scratch data / temporart content.

- Instance store has risk of data loss if the underlying data faults. User is responsible for creating proper backups of the instance store.

# Elastic File System (EFS)

- EFS is a Managed network file system that can be mounted on to multiple EC2 instances at the same time.

- They can be connected to instances across different regions.

- They are highly available, scalable, expensive and follow a pay per use model. They are also very expensive (3 times the price of gp2 EBS volumes).

### EFS-IA (Infrequently Accessed)

- EFS-IA is a storage class of EFS that is cost optimized for infrequently accessed files.

- It has less than 92% less cost compared to standard EFS.

- If the users enable EFS-IA lifecycle policy, EFS will automatically move files to EFS-IA storage class for files that hav enot been used in some days specified in the policy.

# Amazon FSX

- Amazon FSX is a file system server that comes in two flavours:-
  
  - Amazon FSX for windows file server.
  
  - Amazon FSX for lustre

- Amazon FSX for windows file server is a fully managed, highly reliable and scalable windows native sgared file system.

- It is built on windows file server and supports SMB protocol and windows NTFS. Windows machine and windows based EC2 instances can connect with them using SMB or NTFS

- It also has interation with Microsoft Active Directory.

- Amazon FSX for lustre is a fully managed, high performance, scalable file storage for high performance computing.

- Lustre is short for Linux-cluster

- Its use cases include ML, Analytics, video processing, financial modelling, etc. compute intensive tasks that require very high IOPS.

- It scales up to 100 GB/s data transfer, millions of IOPS and has sub milisecond latency.

- Users can connect their server or EC2 instance to lustre and in the backend, lustre stores data in S3 buckets.

# Shared Responsiblility Model

For the different storage solution for EC2 provided by AWS,

AWS is Responsible for:-

- Infrastructure

- Replicating EBS and EFS drives

- Replacing Faulty hardware

- Making sure that AWS employees can not access user data

Users are responsible for:-

- Setting up backup / snapshot procedure.

- Setting up data encryption 

- The data saved on the drives

- Understanding the risk of using instance store.
