# Load Balancers

- Load balancing is a technique used to forward internet traffic to multiple servers efficiently.

- It is generally done using something known as a load balancer, which can be a hardware or software, used to redirect traffic.

- There are many advantages of using a load balancer:-
  
  -  Spread load across multiple servers.
  
  - Seamlessly handle failures in the downstream servers.
  
  - Do regular health checks on the servers.
  
  - High availability across multiple zones

# Elastic Load Balancers (ELB)

- An ELB is a managed load balancer.

- AWS guratees that it will be working, takes care of its upgrades, maintenence and high availability

- AWS provides only a few configurations, so that users can easily deploy a load balancer for their application.

- The downside of using ELB is that it is more costly, but on the other hand, on your own load balancer, you will have to take care of all the maintenence and integrations.

- There are 3 kinds of load balancers offered by AWS:-
  
  - Application load balancer (For HTTP / HTTPS only)
  
  - Network load balancer (ultra-high performance, allows for TCP)
  
  - Classic load balancer (slowly retiring, combination of teh previous two)

# Auto Scaling Groups

- Auto scaling group is a service that automates the scaling in and scaling out of an EC2 instance for users.

- In real world, the load of your websites can change very quickly. The goal of an ASG is to create and get rid of servers very quickly based on the load.

- ASG can also replace unhealthy instances automatically, and can register new instances to a load balancer.

- It is also cost saving, as it only runs at optimal capacity.

### ASG Scaling Strategies

- **Maunal Scaling**: Update the size of ASG manually

- **Dynamic Scaling**: Respond to changing demand
  
  - **Simple / Step Scaling**:
    
    - Eg - when a cloudwach alarm is triggered, (CPU > 70%), add 2 instances.
    
    - Eg - when a cloudwach alarm is triggered, (CPU < 30%), remove 1 instance.
  
  - **Target tracking scaling**
    
    - Eg - Add as many instances to keep the CPU utilization at 40%
  
  - **Scheduled Scaling**:
    
    - Anticipate scaling on known usage patterns.
    
    - Eg - increase  the min capacity to 10 at 5 PM on fridays.

- **Predictive scaling**:
  
  - Uses machine learning to predict future traffic ahead of time.
  
  - Automatically provisions the right number of EC2 in Advance.
  
  - Useful ehr yout load has a predictable time-based patterns.




